Updated powershell user manual (#422)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/microsoft/microsoft-powershell-connector.adoc

= Microsoft PowerShell Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Support Category: Select

> Microsoft PowerShell Connector v2.0.n

Reviewer: Is this the proper format per the template?

Reviewer 2: It's not templated -- we only templated the top 16 most popular. This one isn't so popular.

> The PowerShell connector enables Windows administration tasks to be integrated into Mule applications. PowerShell scripts can be executed on a remote Windows or Linux (Ubuntu) machine using SSH and the result processed within Mule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for PowerShell (PowerShell Connector) enables you to integrate Windows administration tasks into Mule applications. You can execute PowerShell scripts on a remote Windows or Linux (Ubuntu) machine using SSH and have the result processed within Mule runtime engine (Mule).
```
Some of these copyedits I would have expected the writer to perform before forwarding the PR from outside the department to me (full connector name and such). Please do so next time.
Edited also for active voice. Please verify that "you" is doing these things and not the software, because I might make such an error in my attempts to use active voice on your behalf.

> PowerShell connector enables you to connect to any machine locally or remotely to execute script files and commands on local or remote machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PowerShell Connector enables you to connect to any machine, local or remote, to execute script files and commands on those machines.
```

== Prerequisites

> To work with PowerShell connector, install the SSH server on a Windows or Linux (Ubuntu) remote machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To work with PowerShell Connector, install the SSH server on a Windows or Linux (Ubuntu) remote machine:
```

> * To Install SSH for windows you need do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Windows
```

> ** Download https://github.com/PowerShell/Win32-OpenSSH/releases[OpenSSH for Win32 or Win64].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download https://github.com/PowerShell/Win32-OpenSSH/releases[OpenSSH for Win32 or Win64].
```

> ** Follow the https://github.com/PowerShell/Win32-OpenSSH/wiki/Install-Win32-OpenSSH[OpenSSH installation steps].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Follow the https://github.com/PowerShell/Win32-OpenSSH/wiki/Install-Win32-OpenSSH[OpenSSH installation steps].
```

> * For Linux (Ubuntu) systems, follow the https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/openssh-server.html[SSH installation steps]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Linux (Ubuntu)
Follow the https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/openssh-server.html[SSH installation steps]. 
```

> To install Powershell on Linux, follow these https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-linux?view=powershell-6[steps] from Microsoft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Powershell on Linux, follow these https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell-core-on-linux?view=powershell-6[steps] from Microsoft.
```

Reviewer: Are we sure that we want such a specific cross-ref, to another company's materials?
I suggest this instead:
```suggestion
To install Powershell on Linux, follow instructions available from Microsoft.
```

NOTE: The connector does not support executing a PowerShell script on a MacOS computer. 

> === Connect in Design Center

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Connect in Anypoint Design Center
```
...unless you provide a narrative transition, in which case you can use the full name there.

> . Click a trigger. You can use an HTTP Listener to receive input from HTTP,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click a trigger. 
You can use an HTTP Listener to receive input from HTTP,
```
GLOBALLY reformat to ensure that each step (and every list item) is one sentence or fragment max, with additional details following in a plain para, if necessary.

> or another component such as a Scheduler where an action is triggered at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or use another component, such as a Scheduler, when you want an action triggered at
```

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT edit:

a predetermined time.
. Select the connector as a component:
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-find-connector.png[PowerShell Connector find the Connector]
+
. Select an operation:
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-choose-operation.png[PowerShell Connector choose operation]
+
. Set up a PowerShell preferred configuration, either Windows or Linux:
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-choose-configuration.png[PowerShell Connector choose configuration]
+
.. Set up PowerShell Linux configuration:
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-linux-configuration.png[PowerShell Connector Linux configuration]
+
.. Set up PowerShell Windows configuration:

+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-windows-configuration.png[PowerShell Connector Windows configuration]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Fields|Description
|Configuration|PowerShell
2+|Connection

> |Connection Type|Choose Windows or Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Connection Type|Windows or Linux
```

> |IPAddress| The IP address of the computer to which you want to connect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|IPAddress|IP address of the computer to which you want to connect
```

> |User Name| The user name required to authenticate through SSH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|User Name|User name required to authenticate through SSH
```

> |Password | The Password associated with the user name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Password |Password associated with the user name
```

|===
+
To make a simple flow, you can select these operations:
+
* Execute Command operation:
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-execute-command-dc.png[PowerShell Connector Execute Command]

> +

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT edit:

* PowerShell Execute Command operation configuration:

image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-execute-command-config.png[PowerShell Connector action Execute Command]

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Fields |Description
|Command |Command that can execute on the client machine
|===
== Connect in Anypoint Studio 7

> You can use this connector in Anypoint Studio by first downloading it from Exchange

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this connector in Anypoint Studio by downloading it from Anypoint Exchange
```

and configuring it as needed.

== Add the Connector to Your Project

> Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette view.
```

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "powershell".
. Select the connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

=== Add the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "powershell" in the search field.
. Click the connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

=== Configure in Studio 7

> 

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT edit:

. Add the following dependency in your pom.xml file:
+

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-powershell-connector</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
  <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----
+

> Mule converts `RELEASE` to the latest version. To specify a different version in the `pom.xml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule converts `RELEASE` to the latest version. To specify a different version in the pom.xml
```

file, browse to the PowerShell connector in https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-powershell-connector/[Anypoint Exchange], choose a release version, and click *Dependency Snippets*.
+
. Click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.
. In the Global Configuration Elements screen, click *Create*:
+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-config-global-wizard.png[Global Configuration Elements Wizard]
+

> . In the Choose Global Type wizard, expand *Connector Configuration* and select *Windows Configuration* or *Linux Configuration* and click *OK*. The selection you choose enables you to connect remotely to the type of operating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the Choose Global Type wizard, expand *Connector Configuration*, select either *Windows Configuration* or *Linux Configuration*, and click *OK*. 
The selection you choose enables you to connect remotely to the type of operating
```

> system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system that you choose.
```

+

> . Configure the parameters according to instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the parameters as follows:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter|Description

> |Connection | Choose your connection type Windows or Linux configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Connection | Connection type: Windows or Linux
```

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT edit:

|IPAddress | IP address of the machine on which you want to execute the script file or command
|UserName | User associated with the Windows or Linux machine

> |Password | The password associated with the UserName.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Password | Password associated with the UserName
```

|===
+
In the previous image, the placeholder values refer to a configuration file `mule-artifact.properties` placed in the

> `src/main/resources` folder of your project. You can either enter your credentials into the global configuration properties, or reference a configuration file that contains these values. For simpler maintenance and better re-usability of your project, Mule recommends that you use a configuration file. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where your access credentials differ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`src/main/resources` folder of your project. You can either enter your credentials into the global configuration properties, or you can reference a configuration file that contains these values. To simplify maintenance and improve project reusability, of your project, use a configuration file. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where your access credentials differ.
```

+

> . Keep the Advanced tab which has Reconnection strategy with its default entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Keep the Advanced tab default values.
```

> . Click *Test Connection* to confirm that the parameters of your global configuration are accurate, and that Mule is able to successfully connect to PowerShell.

Reviewer: Suggest ending after Connection*.

> . Click *OK* to save the global connector configurations.

Reviewer: Suggest ending after *OK*.

. Your configuration should look like this:

> +

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT edit:

== Use Case: Execute Command

This Mule flow executes a command on a remote Windows machine:

image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-execute-command.png[Executing a command]

. Create a new Mule Project in Anypoint Studio.
. Add the following properties to the mule-artifact.properties file to hold your PowerShell credentials and place the properties file in the project's src/main/resources directory:
+
[source,text,linenums]
----
config.host=<IpAddress>
config.username=<UserName>
config.password=<Password>
----
+
. Drag an HTTP Listener component onto the canvas and configure the following parameters:

+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-http-props.png[PowerShell HTTP config props]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Value
|Display Name |Listener

> |Extension Configuration | If no previous HTTP Listener configuration was created, click the plus sign to add a new HTTP Listener configuration. Set Host to `localhost` and Port to `8081`. Click *OK*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Extension Configuration | Required if no previous HTTP Listener configuration was created:
. Click the plus sign (+) to add a new HTTP Listener configuration.
. Set Host to `localhost` and Port to `8081`. 
. Click *OK*.
```
HOWEVER...it is not generally a good idea to hide a task in a table cell. I can't figure out an alternative just at this moment....

|Path |`/executecommand`
|===

> +

Reviewer: HIDDEN TEXT edit:

. Drag PowerShell Connector Execute Command next to the HTTP Listener component.
. Configure the PowerShell connector by adding a new PowerShell Global Element.

> . Click the plus sign next to the Connector Configuration field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the plus sign (+) next to the Connector Configuration field.
```

> . Configure the global element according to the table below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the global element according to the following table:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,50a,20a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description|Value

> |Name | Enter a name for the configuration to reference it. |<Configuration_Name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name | Name by which to reference the configuration |<Configuration_Name>
```

> |IP Address | The IP address of the machine that you want execute your script file or command. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|IP Address | IP address of the machine that you want to execute your script file or command |
```

> |Username | The user associated with the Windows or Linux machine. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Username | User associated with the Windows or Linux machine |
```

> |Password | The password associated with the UserName. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Password | Password associated with UserName |
```

Reviewer: SKIPPING HIDDEN TEXT EDITS FROM HERE ON in the interest of time....
Please extrapolate from previous edit comments that apply.

----
<powershell:config name="Powershell_Configuration"
  doc:name="PowerShell Configuration">
<powershell:windows-connection 
	host="${config.host}"
	username="${config.username}" 
	password="${config.password}" />
</powershell:config>
----
+

> . Click Test Connection to confirm that Mule can connect with the PowerShell instance. If the connection is successful, click OK to save the configuration. Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, then test again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Test Connection*.
. If the test is successful, click *OK*; if not, review and correct any incorrect parameters and test again.
```

> . Drag the Execute Command operation of the PowerShell connector next to the HTTP Listener component. Back in the properties editor of the PowerShell Execute Command operation, configure the remaining parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the Execute Command operation of the PowerShell connector next to the HTTP Listener component. 
. In the properties editor of the PowerShell Execute Command operation, configure the remaining parameters:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Value

> |Display Name |Execute Command (or any other name you prefer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Display Name |Execute Command (or any other name you prefer)
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<powershell:execute-command 
	doc:name="Execute command"
	config-ref="Powershell_Configuration" 
	command="ipconfig"/>
----
+

> . Add a Logger component after the Execute command operation to print the output in the Mule console. Configure the Logger according to the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add a Logger component after the Execute Command operation to print the output in the Mule console. 
. Configure the Logger according to the following table:
```

+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-http-execute-script-file.png[PowerShell HTTP config props]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter | Value
|Display Name | Listener

> |Extension Configuration| If no HTTP Listener configuration has been created yet, click the plus sign to add a new HTTP Listener Configuration. Specify `localhost` and `8081` for the Host and Port. Click *OK*.

Reviewer: ditto prev. suggestions for this same text, earlier in the doc

+

> . Drag the Execute Script File operation of the PowerShell connector next to the Parse Template component. In the properties editor of the PowerShell Execute script file operation, configure the remaining parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the Execute Script File operation of the PowerShell connector next to the Parse Template component. 
. In the properties editor of the PowerShell Execute script file operation, configure the remaining parameters:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Value

> |Display Name |Execute script file (or any other name you prefer).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Display Name |Execute script file (or any other name you prefer)
```

+

> . Add a Logger component after the Execute Script File to print the output in the Mule Console. Configure the Logger according to the table below.

Reviewer: ditto prev. edits to same text

+
image::microsoft/microsoft-powershell-logger-props.png[PowerShell logger]
+

> . Save and Run the project as a Mule Application. Right-click the project in Package Explorer and click *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Save*.
. Right-click the project in Package Explorer and click *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
```

> . Open a browser and check the response after entering the URL `+http://localhost:8081/executescriptfile+`. You should see output of the operation in the browser and the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open a browser and check the response after entering the URL `+http://localhost:8081/executescriptfile+`. 
You should see output of the operation in the browser and the console.
```

> == USe Case: XML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Use Case: XML
```
